Add first file-source tutorial (#5705)
galaxyproject/training-material: topics/admin/tutorials/s3_bucket/tutorial.md

---
layout: tutorial_hands_on

> title: "S3 bucket in Galaxy"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Adding file-sources to Galaxy"
```

questions:
  - "How to set up an S3 bucket"
objectives:
  - "Add your S3 bucket on Galaxy"
time_estimation: "15m"
subtopic: tooldev
key_points:
  - "S3 bucket in as a data library"
tags:
  - "earth-system"
  - "ocean"
  - "data"
contributors:
  - Marie59

---

> This tutorial demonstrates how to implement an S3 bucket as a data library within Galaxy. We will add here the Argo data amazon S3 bucket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial demonstrates how to implement an S3 bucket as a Galaxy file-source within Galaxy. We will add here the public Argo data Amazon S3 bucket.
```

Maybe link to this?

> Argo is an international program to observe the interior of the ocean with a fleet of profiling floats drifting in the deep ocean currents (https://argo.ucsd.edu). Argo GDAC is a dataset of 5 billion in situ ocean observations from 18.000 profiling floats (4.000 active) which started 20 years ago. Argo GDAC dataset is a collection of 18.000 NetCDF files. It is a major asset for ocean and climate science, a contributor to IOCCP reports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Argo is an international program that observes the interior of the ocean with a fleet of profiling floats drifting in the deep ocean currents (https://argo.ucsd.edu). It started 20 years ago and is a dataset of 5 billion in situ ocean observations from 18.000 profiling floats (4.000 active). The Argo GDAC dataset is a collection of 18.000 NetCDF files. It is a major asset for ocean and climate science and a contributor to IOCCP reports.
```

> <agenda-title></agenda-title>
>
> In this tutorial, we will cover:
>
> 1. TOC
> {:toc}
>
{: .agenda}

# Find the information you need
> <hands-on-title>Find an S3 bucket</hands-on-title>
> Go on [Amazon Sustainability Data Initiative](https://exchange.aboutamazon.com/data-initiative). 
>
> There you can visit the [catalog of data](https://registry.opendata.aws/collab/asdi/), and by searching for Argo you can directly arrive [Argo registry](https://registry.opendata.aws/argo-gdac-marinedata/).
>
> On this last page you'll find all the information you'll need to add the S3 bucket to Galaxy 
> ![Image of the Argo registry on amazon](../../images/s3_bucket/argo_registry.png)
{: .hands_on}

# Add the S3 bucket 

> <hands-on-title>Add on Galaxy</hands-on-title>
>    - If not already done clone the Galaxy Europe [Infrastructure-playbook repo](https://github.com/usegalaxy-eu/infrastructure-playbook/tree/master)
>    - Create a branch on your fork
>    - Go to the file **file_sources_conf.yml.j2** in **templates/galaxy/config/**
>

> > There you can edit the file and add your S3 bucket by filling out the right informations such as this for the Argo example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> There you can edit the file and add your S3 bucket by filling out the right informations such as following for the Argo example:
```
